---
layout: sidebar-right
title: 'Lesley&#8217;s Readers: The dust that falls from dreams by Louis de Bernières'
date: 2015-10-05 11:16:28+00:00
author: nicky-evans
category: book-lists
excerpt: Nicky's review of Louis de Bernières' latest book. <a href="https://suffolk.spydus.co.uk/cgi-bin/spydus.exe/ENQ/OPAC/BIBENQ/15583807?QRY=CTIBIB%3C%20IRN(50447908)&QRYTEXT=The%20dust%20that%20falls%20from%20dreams">Reserve your copy.</a>
breadcrumb: book-lists
---
Hamilton McCosh is an adventurous businessman inventor with four grown-up daughters: Rosie, Christabel, Sophie and Ottlie. Along with Mrs McCosh and a staff of servants, they live an idyllic upper middle-class lifestyle before World War One. As children, the girls live next door to the Perdennis family and the Pitts. They are best friends with the sons of each family, and together they make up “The Pals”. Through de Bernières&#8217; writing the reader is taken on an epic journey before, during and after World War One, from the genteel town of Eltham to the skies of France and the hills of Sri Lanka.

One of the most interesting characters is the matriarch of the house, Mrs McCosh. She believes that upholding good manners and class division is more important than understanding the emotions and thoughts of those around her. Whilst she is irritating, several facts about her life and outlook draw in the reader. For one thing, she gleans most of her behaviour and actions from royalty and nobility which lends itself to great comic effect—shown particularly in her letters to the King.

The war is of great discomfort to Mrs McCosh—she is reluctant to join in the wartime effort in fear of losing face. Under pressure to take up work to help the war effort, she concedes to staging tea and cake afternoons with Belgian ladies who have been forced to flee to the UK. The effect is really funny when contrasted against her husband&#8217;s efforts, employing badly injured soldiers returning from war to assist making amputee parts, and her daughters&#8217; work, who nurse these soldiers when they return home from the front line. However, even Mrs McCosh is badly affected by the war in the end, and like those around her, her life is never quite the same again.

For anybody who has ever loved one person at a very young age, Rosie’s relationship with one of “The Pals”, Ashbridge Perdennis, is a rawly beautiful and painful aspect of the story. They are both young and freshly engaged before he signs up to go to war as a infantry soldier in a Gentlemans’ Division. The short, tough sentences that de Bernières uses to describe action on the front line clash with Ashbridge’s idealistic thoughts of war, which comfort Rosie before he leaves. The real horror of the war engulfs him—bayonets, explosions and death are written into lines about rats, mud and sleep deprivation. The images are shocking, and must be built on solid hours of intensive research. One of the best aspects of de Bernières&#8217; writing is how he uses this vivid description as a backdrop to interfere with his characters relationships. The misery of their surroundings goes some way in explaining the tight tie between soldiers on the front line; “All the friends who were better than any friends you would ever have again.”

Friendships are made between the most unlikely of characters because of the disruption that war brings. The upper classes mix with the lower classes, servants become closer than ever to their employers, and there is even friendship between enemies at war. The relationship between enemies and friends isn’t simplified, and de Bernières makes inroads to the classic problem of humanity: it’s huge capacity for love and understanding and it’s tendency towards ultimate destruction, cruelty and ruthlessness. He uses discussion about God between his characters to great effect to explore this theme. At one point, Daniel Pitt wryly observes how many people he must have killed when he dropped his bombs over enemy lines, and how many men Rosie must have attempted to nurse back to health during her time as a war nurse. He reflects on how many lives they both transformed. This contradiction is one of the ultimate aspects of what it is to be human and it is a question which the book explores.

One of the best things about de Bernières&#8217; writing—and I found this to be true in his previous novels <cite>Captain Corelli&#8217;s Mandolin</cite> and <cite>Birds Without Wings</cite>—is his talent for goading the present into a memory within the same book. The same intense, urgent situation which the reader is engaged with in the beginning gradually turns into the past for both the characters and the reader. The past lends itself to memories—and all memories are threatened by loss and by that extension—to meaninglessness. What was once specialist knowledge on the battlefield or in the air is now useless in everyday civilian life. Louis de Bernières is expert in showing how that uselessness can turn to anger and disillusionment within the minds of his characters. For example, he describes what it is to be a soldier without war:

> It’s all post-script now… we got matched to the to the hour, thank God for it, get through it, binged and biffoed, cursed God and the politicians and generals, shouted and laughed, lost our friends, hurtled about in the sky, slaughtered and murdered and nearly got killed God knows how many times, got the gust up so we could hardly drink for the shakes, and now it’s all gone.

Despite all the misery and nostalgia, there is so much hope and beauty in this book. His poetic title, <cite>The Dust that Falls from Dreams</cite>, features in an extract taken from a tender scene in the book, which explores what it is to be in love and newly married. The bride is tracing her fingertips in the early morning dust, lit by the morning sun. The hope and the feeling between her and her husband is especially adventurous and new against the backdrop of so much horror and revulsion.

The reader must keep track of many lives throughout this novel, and de Bernières makes this relatively easy with short chapters which enter and exit each life with ease. Some chapters are letters, which clarifies how each character relates to another. I was left wanting to know more about some of the relationships which aren’t part of the main storyline, particularly that of Christabel and the artist Gaskell.

Louis de Bernières is ambitious in his approach, and he writes clearly about themes such as class, sexuality, age and war which are made all the more complicated by the rapid change from a feudal system into a more meritocratic society. If you want to know more about how the war impacts on civilian life during World War One, this is a fantastic book to read.
