---
layout: sidebar-right
title: Formal notice for Suffolk’s Libraries IPS Ltd Annual General Meeting
date: 2016-09-08
author: james-powell
excerpt: Formal notice of our 2016 AGM.
category: news
breadcrumb: news
---

**Thursday, 29 September 2016**

The Cookhouse, Suffolk Food Hall, Wherstead, Ipswich, Suffolk IP9 2AB

Please note this meeting is open to Suffolk Libraries Community Group members and invitees only.

- Exhibitor stalls viewing from 5.30pm-6.30pm
- Buffet supper 5.30pm
- AGM 6.30pm-8.00pm

1.	Chair’s welcome, apologies for absence and minutes of AGM, 10 September 2015.
2.	Annual Report: To receive the report for year ending 31 March 2016 from the chair of the board, Tony Brown, and the chief executive, Alison Wheeler.
3.	Accounts 2015/16: To receive the Statement of Accounts for the year 2015/16 presented by Jonathan Ogden, honorary treasurer.
4.	Appointment of auditor: To appoint the auditor - Larking Gowen Ltd.
5.	Announcement of the election of 2 Suffolk Libraries IPS Ltd board members
6.	Guest speaker: Nicola Upson, author
7.	Volunteer Awards: Awards for outstanding volunteers at Suffolk Libraries sponsored by East of England Co-operative
8.	Closing remarks

## Proxy Arrangements

The Rules of Suffolk Libraries provide for you as the notified representative to attend the AGM and exercise your member vote.  If you are unable to attend you may register a proxy arrangement for another member of your Friends Group or Tony Brown the chair, Suffolk Libraries to vote on your behalf.  Please ensure that you send your proxy arrangement form to Nikki Sturmey by post or email nikki.sturmey@suffolklibraries.co.uk by 5.00pm on Friday 23 September 2016.

Please inform Nikki Sturmey of your intent to attend by 5pm on Friday 23 September 2016 at 01473 263835 or email: nikki.sturmey@suffolklibraries.co.uk

[Download this formal notice (PDF)](/assets/pdf/2016-formal-notice-agenda.pdf)
